hello everyone its Elena and I'm back
with another video and today I'm gonna
talk to you guys about the notes that I
take on my laptop so this video has two
parts one is how I set up my notes and
how exactly I do all the things on there
and then I'm gonna have some general
tips for you guys whenever you're making
notes but first let me explain my system
so I have my lecture notes which I take
on good notes on my iPad and then my
reading notes and supervision notes and
then my revision notes and these are all
different sets of notes so my revision
notes I take on my iPad and good notes
and these are the notes which I put the
most effort in in terms of aesthetics
because I want these to look nice so
that I'm more motivated to look at
because I'm very much one of these
people where like if it looks good I'm
more willing to read it so yeah I
basically just have a good notes
notebook for every topic and every
subject and that's pretty much what I do
now I make these revision notes from
these free sets of notes so you have my
supervision notes those are the notes I
take in a supervision which is just a
conversation with your professor they're
very short and those are just minutes
basically from a meeting and then I have
my lecture notes which I take during the
lecture I take them on good notes
because I think it's easier to handwrite
because then you only write the
important things down but yeah as you
can see those are just typical lecture
notes and I also use these to make my
revision notes so all of these notes
then form the basis of my revision notes
later on and the notes we're going to
talk about today are Dee's notes the
reading notes so the reading notes are
the notes that I take in preparation for
supervision so in these notes I
basically go over all the assigned
reading take notes on it and I try to
present the information as clearly as
possible for example with diagrams
wherever it's appropriate and I'm gonna
show you guys how I put these diagrams
in my reading notes so yeah let's do it
so here's an example set of notes these
are my notes on child protection and I'm
gonna use these to explain to you guys
what exactly I do now as you can see
there are a lot of notes and in law
school you have a lot of reading to do
so there will be a lot of notes and
that's why it's really important that
your notes are well structured that you
have very clear layout which you can
easily go over because well you have a
lot of notes let's just put it that way
you also have a lot of reading so it
makes sense you can't condense your
notes down to ten pages if you can do
that in law school you're probably doing
something wrong because when you're
reading over 800 pages for a supervision
you should not be able to condense that
down to ten pages you would probably be
missing some details so it's absolutely
fine if they're long but they need to be
well structured in order to ensure that
they're useful so you can see here for
example this set of notes is 48 pages
long so that's why we need a good
structure so here's how I get started I
always opening you document in pages and
then I just put in two heading which is
just reading notes very generic and then
I usually just put the topic behind it
just so I know what exactly is going on
and then I just copy and paste my
reading list now once I have all of the
readings that I have to do in that
document I just space it out a little
bit and make sure that the heading is
rightly formative so for the heading I
always make it bold and then I just make
it 18 as a font size and I put it in the
middle because I like that aesthetic but
that is not relevant now let's get to
the relevant part now I always face the
different readings out because you need
to take notes on each individual reading
so I think it makes sense to separate
them like that already and then I
highlight them and then I go into the
settings and I then changed the
background colors so not the color of
the text but the background of the text
and I just turn it pink for any required
reading I find it really useful because
it just shows you what you really have
to read for the supervision you have to
get it done and I think pink is the
color you can easily see in the document
and any further reading I should do over
the holiday I make blue because well I
don't have to do it there but I think it
gives you a good overview which you can
quickly see in the document off what you
still have to do and what you will have
to do over the holiday and it's very
easily identifiable work which is
important in order not to forget what to
do and then I just quickly put the
subject and the supervision number into
the header to make sure that the
document easily is located in terms of
like where it belongs within the subject
and that's why I also put a page number
there because in case you accidentally
you know throw your papers around you
can easily put them back in order and
yeah that's what my setup looks like
before I have started taking notes I
think it already starts with setting up
the document so that's why I showed you
guys this because without doing that I
ended up
something like I did here these are my
notes from back in high school when I
took summer classes at a university and
yeah you can see the six thousand word
document it's just a long list of points
and this is what we don't want because
you are not getting anything out of this
so let me explain to you guys how I do
my best to avoid this so here are my
notes on child protection you can see
there's some pink written there and the
pink stuff is just stuff that my teacher
you know sent to us it's just guidance
that's what's in pink because it's not
really notes and then you can see that I
again have this background behind the
text that's just for a heading so an
important topic within this bigger topic
of child protection so that I know okay
the next few bullet points are going to
deal with this and I have this
throughout the document this just helps
me structure things and I also use the
background text tool for statute so
statute is just yeah legal text
basically whatever the law says I like
to make them gray for me it makes it
easier to identify what is the written
law and whenever I write something down
from the statute it is a very important
provision so that's just like a pointer
for myself of this messes I don't use a
lot of color because I go over my notes
later on as you can see here and then I
use a highlighter but I really try to
limit myself with a highlighter because
you can't really trust me with a
highlighter too much because I will
highlight the entire page otherwise and
I know if I would give myself the option
to do so on a document in pages I
probably would so that's why I also used
a grey background tool for marking some
key things so for example whenever I
read a journal article I marked a thesis
and gray this was a very long thesis and
I probably could have convinced this to
one paragraph but yeah basically I write
down all the other arguments and you
know the interesting stuff behind the
faeces without any background color and
just a thesis is gray so that I can
easily spot it because that's the key
takeaway and I sometimes do use color in
documents when you know it makes sense
like for example here with the table for
me it made sense to visualize the colors
here so that I could easy to see what is
a pro what is a calm but I try to stay
away from color as much as possible for
writing the notes now one thing that I
try to do all the time is create tables
I think challenging yourself to put
almost everything into a table really
helps because a table forces you to come
up with categories it forces you to
think about okay why is this relevant
where does this information fit in how
would this help me solve a legal problem
or you know whatever subject you're in
how would this help you and it then also
helps you link other information to it
so for example for me I always linked my
40s so the sections or cases I'm relying
on for this in the table 2d information
and I find that a great way of ensuring
that you really understand the
information that you're writing down and
now let's get to the fun part of adding
diagrams and before we get into this a
quick trigger warning I'm gonna explain
to you guys how I use diagrams with this
case this case concerns child protection
it is not a nice case but it really
shows well how diagrams can help so
under these diagrams I usually have
tables withheld and orbiters so what was
the actual verdict and any extra
comments that the judges made but the
fact I often draw because they can be
quite complicated so you can see here
for example two parents they had three
kids one of them died under non
accidental circumstances so I every one
of them or both of them together were
responsible so the second kid went into
care and then they had a third kid now
the parents eventually split up so mom
took the third kid to her new partner
who also had two kids and now the
question was could all of these free
kids be taken into care on the basis
that mom may have been responsible for
the death of the first child that we
talked about so that was a question for
the court and you can see this fact
pattern was quite complicated so that's
why I drew it out and I'm sorry for the
grim fact scenario but I think this is a
really great illustration of where words
would just make it more complicated in
your head so that's why I prefer to draw
it so here's how I add these drawings I
just make them in good notes and I just
take the pictures from Google Images
these are clipart images I usually just
put in woman clipart transparent
background and something pops up or
child transform background clipart and
then I just export the page in good
nodes make sure to export it as an image
and
then do not include the page background
because you don't want the squares in
your document you don't need that and
then just export it and airdrop it to
your laptop with your pages notes on it
you can also just you know put it into
your pages notes on your iPad I'm just
better with making pages notes on my
laptop so that's why I airdrop it and
then just take it from my downloads
folder and yeah just put it in a
document now it's usually a little too
big because you use an entire page and
good notes so just double click on the
image and cut it to whatever size you
want the image to be once I cut the
image I just drag it into the right
position and pages has these yellow
lines that pop up and tell you whether
it's in the center or not which I really
appreciate as a perfectionist because
then you know it's actually centered and
yeah there you go now let's get into
some general tips for note-taking so my
first tip is before you take any notes
for a subject go to your folder with all
your information on a subject and take
out the syllabus and read it it will not
take you long to read the few bullet
points for that particular topic but it
will be a good reminder of what is
important and what is actually excluded
so that you know what to actually take
notes on and what you just don't need to
know next remember what these notes are
for because it can be tempting to put a
lot of effort into reading notes but
remember these are your reading notes
not your revision notes put most of your
time into your revision notes they
matter they need to look great so that
you know you will look at them more and
more your reading notes don't need to be
aesthetically pleasing they just need to
be useful and informative
so put most of your time for aesthetics
into your revision notes and know where
to invest your time next never take
notes on the first read this is probably
the most important advice I can give
always read the text first annotated
highlight it whatever is your method I
usually underline and then I take a few
notes on it I recommend using post-its
so what I do is I have it posted with CR
which stands for currently reading one
which has notes on it so that is how far
I have taken my notes and then I have a
last one which is nt it was stands for
next target so that is how far I need to
get
using these free posters allows you to
see where you're currently at how much
you still have left and it really allows
you to visualize your progress because
you can always just lift it post it and
see how many pages you still have to
read and it also allows you to stay on
track of where you have taken notes on
and where you need to get going on your
notes again so you know you just keep an
overview on where you're at within the
text which is really important and
lastly you do not treat your reading
notes as done once you've typed them out
they will be massive documents and trust
me they are not done until you have
highlighted them until you have
annotated them and probably read over
them at least two times because you need
to be on top of the content and they're
it's not enough to just read the
textbook type out the important
information but not actually have
digested it you really need to be able
to apply to content so I would recommend
printing them out because when you have
for example 39 page document with tabs
you know you need to highlight and
annotate you can also export them as
PDFs and just put them in good notes but
personally I prefer paper but whatever
is your preference but yeah this is how
I make my notes on my laptop I hope you
guys found this video helpful thank you
so much for watching have a nice day bye
[Music]
you